---
layout: "main.njk"
---

## Ability scores

PCs have six abilities with scores rated from 0 to 10:

1. Strength `STR`: The Fighter ability. Added to melee attacks and
checks requiring power like climbing and lifting.

2. Dexterity `DEX`: The Thief ability. Added to checks requiring
agility and reflexes like dodging, sneaking, picking pockets, sleight
of hand, etc.

3. Constitution `CON`: The Adventurer ability. Important for every PC.
Added to checks to resist poison, cold, etc. PCs have 10 + CON item
slots and can take 10 + CON wounds before dying.

4. Intelligence `INT`: The Magic-User ability. Added to checks
requiring cunning, like lock picking, alchemy, etc. INT improves the
effectiveness of spells and PCs can cast INT spells per day.

5. Wisdom `WIS`: The Ranger ability. Added to ranged attacks and
checks requiring perception and willpower like foraging, navigating,
and resisting spells.

6. Charisma `CHA`: The Cleric ability. Added to checks requiring force
of personality like initiative and persuasion. PCs can have a number
of companions and patron blessings equal to their CHA.

## Create a character

### 1. Record ability scores

Distribute 3 points between your PC’s ability scores. More than 1
point can be placed in the same score. Or, let fate decide by rolling
3d6, with each die adding 1 to the ability score matching the number
it rolled.

_Example: rolling 3-5-5 means `CON` (the 3rd ability) is 1 and WIS
(the 5th ability) is 2. All other abilities have a score of 0._

### 2. Record secondary stats

PCs start at level 1 with 0 XP. They have 10 + `CON` item slots and
start with d6 maximum Hit Points (HP).

### 3. Record careers

Roll or pick two careers. You gain those careers’ items, as well as
any of the following that you can carry: 3d6×10 coins, 2 rations, a
50’ rope, 2 torches, any armor pieces or weapons and a quiver of 20
arrows. If the PC has any points in `INT`, they may receive a random
spell book for each point.

TODO

### 4. Record armor

PCs have Armor Points `AP` equal to their number of armor pieces and
an Armor Class `AC` equal to `AP` + 11.

### 5. Finishing touches

Name and describe your character.
